# How To Find Freelance Writers For Your Business Needs

Freelance writers can be a valuable addition to any working team, adding enormous experience, writing expertise, and equating to increased exposure and profitability for businesses. Finding the right freelance writer for the job, however, can be difficult and time consuming, which is why many businesses avoid the idea altogether. Thankfully, there are some methods for narrowing down the sudden flood of wannabe writers to the select few that are willing to go the extra mile to make your business shine.

## Visit Some Profiles

Just type in “freelance writer” on any major search engine, and you are bound to find a number of writing professionals who have set up websites with writing samples, occasional resumes, and contact information. Beware of the wannabes who consider bad grammar and multiple misspellings to be acceptable prose here, and don’t be afraid to ask for references and resumes if things don‘t seem quite right. Remember, you are representing a possible paycheck, so treat the process like an online business interview and only consider candidates who are presenting their A-game and plan to follow through to the end of your project with the same approach. There are a few links to such profiles in the resource section here, and many more to be found through step 

## Consult the Pros

There are a number of freelance writing blogs on the internet that exist for the sole purpose of giving writers who wish to continually improve their game the chance to collaborate, talk about their businesses, and share insights into achieving success. The number one site on the internet for this is the Freelance Writing Jobs (see resource section) forum, where Deb Ng and her team perform a wonderful service to the writing community and attract some of the best talent in the business to chat about their professions. Log in to the website and look around, view the comments after some of the posts, and if any of the writers seem to have what you’re looking for, invite them to send you a resume or shoot them an email with the job description. Be sure to mention that you saw their post on FWJ – and don’t send a million spam messages – and your chances of finding a genuine professional with a passion for writing just increased exponentially.

## Post an Ad

There are numerous bidding sites on the net where businesses and clients can post their writing projects and writers can submit their bids, detailing their experience and skills in the process, and using a third party escrow system to ensure that payment doesn’t go through until a satisfactory job has been completed. These sites can be great places to find great professionals, but keep in mind that they are also filled with people who might not have the skills you are looking for – or the time needed to truly dedicate themselves to your project. If you decide to use one of these sites, remember that the lowest bid is almost always going to yield numerous reasons for their prices, and don’t settle for anything less than the writer who stands out as a true professional. Odesk, Elance, and Writingbids.com are a few of these to look through, and their links can also be found in the resource section.

