# Painting Auto Trim

Painting auto trim is a simple and easy way to make an auto look great without needing a great deal of technical knowledge. There are, however, a few tips to keep in mind during this process that will make auto trim painting faster, easier, and longer lasting than standard paint jobs, as well as ensuring a boost in vehicle value.

Auto body experts understand the absolute essential need for preparing the painting area before spraying the first coat of primer. A clean-room can be easily fashioned by hanging inexpensive clear plastic from garage rafters to keep dust and floating debris out of the painting area. Finish by hanging 5-10 air-filled balloons over the painting area and static charge them by rubbing their surfaces vigorously on carpet, clothing, or even hair. This will help to prevent dust and small debris from falling onto freshly painted surfaces.

In order to properly paint most trim pieces, they should first be removed from the auto and thoroughly prepared for their beautification. To do this, use 400 grit sandpaper and water to wet sand the entire surface to be painted, washing all away all debris when finished. This is also the best time to apply a sealing compound to any cracks or breaks in the surface of the piece before wet sanding a second time to ensure an overall smoothness that the primers and paints will readily adhere to. Finally, use masking tape to cover any areas that should not be painted. When taping, be sure that the tape covers a larger area than needed before using a razor blade to lightly cut away the excess around the covered portion. 

Now that the trim piece is ready to be painted, double check the painting area before coating the piece with its first layer of primer. Using the 400 grit sandpaper, smooth down this coat before spraying a second, repeating the wet sanding each time to build up a smooth and level surface. If the trim strip is supposed to be perfectly flat, attach the sandpaper to a wood block while sanding to achieve this effect. Many auto-body experts recommend applying 10-15 coats of primer before switching to a different color for the final primer coat. This color will need to be sanded completely off, which exposes any shallow areas that might not have been visible using only one color. The shallow spots will be difficult – or impossible – to sand away, alerting the painter to fill those areas with body putty or Bondo.

The final paint layer should be applied as evenly as possible, which is why most paint stores give away paper cone filters with each purchase. If you are using an air gun, ensure that the gun is cleaned out thoroughly, that no thinner or other scrubbing agent is present in the system, and that any paint entering the system has first passed through these paper filters. Now, the final coats of colored paint can be applied smoothly and evenly across the surface of the trim piece, followed by at least 3 clear coat layers if desired. 

