# GenShock Efficiently Sparks Intrigue Across the Nation

For publication in Careers in Gear Magazine

Kevin Freeman

Saying that MIT is well known for its excellence in mathematics and engineering is like saying that sliced bread is somewhat convenient for making sandwiches - which is why it is no shock that one of the latest, and perhaps most notable, technological innovations to emerge in the fuel and energy efficiency market was created by two MIT students.  Shakeel Avadhany, CEO, and Zach Anderson, COO, founded the Levant Power company in 2008 to produce a revolutionary fuel saving system that harnesses wasted energy and puts it to good use. This product, called the Genshock, is creating more than a slight spark – pun intended – in the vehicle manufacturing community after its initial introduction for testing in United States military vehicles is producing an overall fuel economy improvement of 10 percent. 

Simply put, the GenShock is a hydraulic shock absorber, appearing and functioning much like a standard suspension component, that converts the otherwise wasted energy from bumps and dips in standard terrain into useable power – up to one kilowatt, or 1.34 horsepower, per unit. This feat is accomplished by replacing the typical fluid restriction valves, which normal hydraulic shocks use to absorb energy, with a small electric turbine that uses the flow of hydraulic fluid to produce power for the engine. The energy savings provided by the GenShock system is enough to offset the energy needed to run an alternator in a class 8 truck, which equates to a much lower fuel consumption level for the motor. 

Although the GenShock system is making its debut in the military marketplace, if all goes well it will soon progress to production in civilian vehicles, and would likely become available to consumers as an aftermarket addition to their vehicles as well. Some trucking companies have already installed the system for testing purposes and, according to preliminary results, they already anticipate an astounding 90 percent return on their initial investment. Add to that the quick and simple installation process, and the Levant Power Corporation is poised to become a fast success in today’s energy starved environment. 

Not long ago, when fuel prices blew past $5 per gallon in some parts of the country, and the sky seemed to be the limit for where they might finally peak, it became clear in the minds of many Americans that a new solution would soon be needed to solve our national energy crisis. At the same time, it became equally clear to professional drivers that the solution had better come quickly if the nation wanted to continue receiving the regular shipments of goods that pump the lifeblood into every community within the civilized world, and a large number outside of it as well. No one anticipated such a fast delivery for a system that instantly saves $100 for every $1000 spent on fuel, despite fluxuating fuel prices, but any consumers wishing to obtain the system for themselves will be in for a slight wait until preliminary tests are completed. 

GenShock is exactly the type of device that brings us closer to that mythically elusive perpetual motion machine that physicists and hobbyists have been wracking their brains to produce since the advent of mechanical motion. While we may never achieve that goal of perfectly renewable energy, we can enjoy each successive attempt and keep rooting for companies like Levant Power, whose sole purpose is to make our lives easier, cheaper, and more efficient. In the meantime, you can check out the new GenShock at levantpower.com, and keep rooting for the home team.

