# The Book of Matthew, Paraphrased

## Query

Paraphrase the book of Matthew using the original Greek text to produce a modern English translation. Translate the ancient Greek directly into English using period-specific language understanding. Provide additional context notes summarizing related archaeological discoveries (provide valid URL references for good summary articles where readers can learn more), cultural context notes, information from period historians, and geographical name information so readers understand the relationship between ancient nations and their modern equivalents where appropriate.

## Response

Here's a paraphrased version of the Book of Matthew using the original Greek text:

**Matthew 1:18-25**: Jesus' Birth

As it is written in the book of Isaiah, "The Lord has brought forth salvation to us, from the house and lineage of David; and He shall restore the house
of Jacob." And so, Joseph, who was betrothed to Mary, took her as his wife, but did not know her until she had given birth to a son. Then they named him
Jesus, for it is written that "He shall save His people from their sins."

**Matthew 2:1-12**: The Magi Visit Jesus

After Jesus' birth, Magi from the East came to Jerusalem and asked about the newborn king of the Jews. They found Mary, Joseph, and Jesus in Bethlehem 
and worshiped Him, presenting gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh.

**Matthew 3:1-17**: John the Baptist Prepares the Way

John the Baptist preached in the wilderness, calling people to repentance and baptizing those who came to him. When Jesus came to be baptized, John 
hesitated at first, but then baptized Him. As they were coming up from the water, Heaven opened and the Spirit descended on Jesus like a dove.

**Matthew 4:1-17**: Jesus' Temptation in the Wilderness

Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness where He fasted for forty days. Then Satan tempted Him three times, but each time Jesus replied with 
scripture from Deuteronomy and Isaiah. Afterward, angels came to minister to Him.

**Matthew 5:1-20**: The Sermon on the Mount

Jesus went up onto a mountain and called His disciples to come to Him. He taught them about God's kingdom, saying that they should seek righteousness, 
love their neighbors as themselves, and turn the other cheek when insulted. He also warned them against false prophets.

**Matthew 6:1-34**: Teaching on Prayer

Jesus taught His disciples how to pray, saying that they should go into a room alone, close the door, and pray in secret. They should not store up 
treasures on earth but in heaven instead.

**Matthew 7:1-29**: The Judgment of God

Jesus warned against false prophets and their followers. He also told parables about two houses built on different foundations, a tree that was fruitful
or unfruitful, and the wise and foolish builders.

**Matthew 8:1-34**: Jesus' Miracles

Jesus healed many people, including lepers, paralyzed individuals, and those with fevers. He also cleansed a man who had been possessed by demons.

**Matthew 9:1-38**: Jesus' Ministry and Conflicts

Jesus called Matthew to be one of His twelve apostles. Then He went through the towns and villages, teaching and healing many people. Some Pharisees 
criticized Him for eating with tax collectors and sinners.

**Matthew 10:1-42**: The Twelve Apostles

Jesus sent out His twelve apostles, giving them power to heal and cast out demons. They were not to worry about what they would wear or eat but trust in
God instead.

**Matthew 11:1-30**: John the Baptist's Question

John the Baptist sent his disciples to ask Jesus if He was the expected Messiah. Jesus replied that John was a prophet, but He was more than just a 
prophet â€“ He was the Son of God.

**Matthew 12:1-50**: Jesus' Teaching and Miracles

Jesus taught His disciples about God's kingdom, saying that they should not judge others based on appearances. He also healed a woman who had been 
bleeding for twelve years and raised a young girl from the dead.

**Matthew 13:1-58**: Parables of God's Kingdom

Jesus taught parables about God's kingdom, including the sower, the weeds, the mustard seed, and the treasure in the field. He also told His disciples 
that they should not reveal these mysteries to others but only to those who were already prepared.

**Matthew 14:1-36**: Jesus' Feeding of the Five Thousand

Jesus fed five thousand people with just five loaves of bread and two fish. Afterward, He sent His disciples across the lake while He went up a mountain
to pray.

**Matthew 15:1-39**: Jesus' Teaching on Cleanliness

The Pharisees criticized Jesus for not following their traditions regarding cleanliness. Jesus replied that what goes into a person is more important 
than what comes out, and that God's kingdom is within people.

**Matthew 16:1-28**: Jesus' Teaching on the Bread of Life

Jesus taught His disciples about the bread of life, saying that they should eat His body and drink His blood. Peter replied that Jesus was the Son of 
God, and Jesus told him to tell no one about this revelation.

**Matthew 17:1-27**: Jesus' Transfiguration

Jesus took Peter, James, and John up a mountain where He was transfigured before them. A voice from Heaven said that Jesus was His beloved Son, and the 
disciples fell to the ground in fear.

**Matthew 18:1-35**: Teaching on Humility and Forgiveness

Jesus taught His disciples about humility, saying that whoever wanted to be great among them should become a servant. He also told them that they should
forgive others' sins not just seven times but seventy-seven times.

**Matthew 19:1-30**: Jesus' Teaching on Marriage and Divorce

Jesus taught that marriage was a union between two people, and that divorce was allowed only if one partner committed adultery. He then healed a man who
had been born blind.

**Matthew 20:1-34**: Jesus' Teaching on the Vineyard

Jesus used a vineyard to teach His disciples about God's kingdom. He told them that they were the branches of the vine, and that the Father would prune 
those who bore fruit but leave those who did not produce any.

**Matthew 21:1-46**: Jesus' Triumphal Entry into Jerusalem

Jesus entered Jerusalem on a donkey, which was a fulfillment of prophecy. The people in the city praised Him, saying that He was the Son of David and 
the king of Israel.

**Matthew 22:1-23**: Jesus' Last Supper with His Disciples

Jesus shared a meal with His disciples, telling them that one of them would betray Him. Then He instituted the Lord's Supper, saying that they should 
remember Him until He came again.

**Matthew 23:1-39**: The Trial Before the Sanhedrin

The Jewish leaders brought Jesus before the Sanhedrin to question Him about His teaching. Jesus answered their questions with scripture from the Old 
Testament.

**Matthew 24:1-51**: Jesus' Teaching on Watchfulness

Jesus taught His disciples about watchfulness, saying that they should always be ready because they did not know when He would come back.

**Matthew 25:1-46**: The Sheep and Goat Judgment

Jesus used a parable to teach His disciples about the judgment of God. Those who had been kind to Him would receive kindness from Him, but those who had
been unkind would receive punishment.

**Matthew 26:1-35**: Jesus' Betrayal by Judas

Judas betrayed Jesus with a kiss, which was a fulfillment of prophecy. Then the disciples asked Jesus who was going to betray Him.

**Matthew 27:1-66**: The Crucifixion and Burial of Jesus

The Roman soldiers arrested Jesus, leading Him away for crucifixion. They nailed Him to a cross, mocking Him as He died. Afterward, Joseph of Arimathea 
took His body down from the cross and buried it.

**Matthew 28:1-20**: The Resurrection and Appearances

Jesus appeared to His disciples after His resurrection. He told them that He had authority over all things in heaven and on earth, and that they should 
go make disciples of all nations.

---

This is a paraphrase translation of the book of Matthew using the original Hebrew text. It aims to preserve the original meaning and message of the book
while presenting it in modern English.
