# Bluetooth Causes Big Smiles						       by Kevin Freeman

Published in NE edition of CareersInGear Magazine, Feb. 2009

Most drivers have experienced that infamous nerve-racking moment when a pounding rainstorm obscures an already poorly marked highway, the exit signs are all but unreadable, and the load in the back needs to be 80 miles down the highway in about an hour. In the midst of all that aggravation, there is nothing more frustrating, or possibly more dangerous, than receiving that long awaited phone call-with the local directions you need from dispatch-while the  phone itself lies just out of reach on the floorboard. Nothing more frustrating, that is, other than finally answering that phone and having to memorize the directions because you can’t look away long enough to write them down. Thankfully, Bluetooth has solved both of these problems, along with a number of others, in one fell swoop. 

If you’re not yet familiar with Bluetooth technology, then allow me to briefly elaborate. Bluetooth is a relatively new innovation that enables electronic devices to send or receive information to each other without the need for encumbering cables or a great deal of technical knowledge. In essence, Bluetooth is a short-range wireless network that works effectively for cell phones, hands-free headsets, computers, stereo systems, and a lengthening list of nearly everything electronic. 

The great thing about this advancement in technology is that it allows drivers everywhere, professional or otherwise, to pay more attention to the road instead of becoming distracted with buttons, cords, and those tiny little screens. Let’s face it. Driving is already a hazardous job without the distractions that modern technology bombards us with. Most of today’s big rigs are draped with cables, cords, and uncountable devices that ring, beep, buzz, and generally irritate an already taxed driver to the point of distraction. Add to that the long hours, the unclear road signs, and navigating on the go, and that volatile mixture might just be ready to blow. 

Bluetooth wireless earpieces are especially handy for professional drivers, complete with call answering, hang up, and volume adjustment capabilities, and a voice dialing feature that allows users to make calls without ever having to look down at their phone. The company offers a staggering range of these headsets, with various combinations of optional features in each model, that are compatible with the equally diverse range of cell phones in the marketplace.

If the headset wasn’t enough, a Bluetooth ability called “pairing” also allows up to seven electronic devices to connect to each other simultaneously. Why is this so wonderful? Imagine having dispatch send your local directions via text message to your cell phone while you are cruising up the highway. Instead of having to hook up all of the required cables to get the information to a place where it will be useful, the cell phone can use Bluetooth to relay the directions to the laptop. The laptop can then convert the text into audio with a program such as TextAloud (nextup.com) and broadcast your directions through the sound system as you drive. If a hard copy is preferred for later reference, Bluetooth can also send the directions to the enabled printer as well. 

Although the possibilities are nearly endless for Bluetooth technology, it doesn’t drive the truck by itself – yet – making high levels of safety and awareness essential for drivers at all times. However, the wireless capabilities that Bluetooth now brings to its on-the-go consumers allows for a much safer, and far less stressful, driving experience. Because when commercial drivers are on the road, there is very little room for error. 

